---
title: New Major National Archives Exhibition Explores Origins and Inspiration for
  the Declaration of Independence
url: https://www.archives.gov/press/press-releases/2026/nr26-2
date: '2026-03-31'
author: ascheinblum
feed_url: https://www.archives.gov/rss.xml
---
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE "Free and Independent" to open April 25, 2026, in celebration of America's 250th birthday The National Archives will open Free and Independent: A Celebration of the Declaration , a major special exhibition in Washington, DC on April 25, 2026. Free and Independent will tell the riveting story behind America’s most important founding document by transporting visitors back into the 18th century, exploring daily life in British America and getting to know some of the men who risked everything —including their lives— by signing America’s Declaration of Independence. This exhibition will also chronicle how this very precious and fragile piece of parchment has been preserved over 250 years, from its adoption in Philadelphia in 1776 to its permanent encasement behind layers of protective glass in the National Archives. The bold and revolutionary words in the Declaration of Independence helped motivate and inspire American colonists to take up arms against Great Britain. The colonies became states, the states became united, and a new nation was born. Free and Independent will document this story using original records and state-of-the-art machine learning technology. The exhibition will consist of 40 original artifacts from the National Archives collections and other lenders, including a 1763 Broadside from King George, Lafayette’s Oath of Allegiance, and a playful selection of Centennial and Bicentennial related artifacts and ephemera. Jim Byron, Senior Official at the National Archives performing the duties of the Archivist of the United States, said: “Our nation’s entire origin story can be traced back to the Declaration of Independence. The Free and Independent special exhibition will take visitors back in time to see and hear what motivated the colonists to advocate for revolution. The National Archives is proud to play a leading role in America’s 250th anniversary celebrations, and welcome millions of visitors to tour this exhibition and come away with a personalized appreciation of arguably the most seminal document in human history.” The exhibition will also explore the Declaration’s cultural impacts over time, through visual arts and music, and spotlight the 1976 Bicentennial Celebrations, still a fresh memory for many Americans today. Exhibition visitors can be part of history by submitting photos of their own Independence Day traditions which will be displayed as part of the exhibition. “The National Archives Foundation is proud to support this new exhibition that will  thoughtfully tell the story of our nation’s founding,” said National Archives Foundation Chief Executive Officer Patrick Madden. “ Free and Independent is part of our critical mission in this banner 250th year to connect more Americans to the document that sparked the constitutional democracy we cherish today.” This special exhibition will run through July 5, 2027 and is free and open to the public. Advance tickets can be reserved online at visit.archives.gov/visit . Free and Independent: A Celebration of the Declaration is made possible in part by the National Archives Foundation through the generous support of The Boeing Company, Comcast Corporation, Microsoft, and P&G. Additional support provided by Ancestry, John Hancock, and C&G Partners. This special exhibition is one of many National Archives initiatives for America’s 250th, including the ongoing Freedom Plane National Tour , as well as Opening the Vault Across America, wherein the National Archives is loaning many of the nation’s seminal documents to Presidential Libraries. About the National Archives The National Archives and Records Administration is a federal agency that serves the American people by preserving and making available the records of the United States Government through a nationwide network of archives, records centers, and Presidential Libraries. The National Archives is the custodian of the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights, on display for all to experience in Washington, DC. Learn more about the holdings of the National Archives at www.archives.gov . About the National Archives Foundation The National Archives Foundation is an independent nonprofit foundation that increases public awareness of the National Archives, inspires a deeper appreciation of our country’s heritage, and encourages citizen engagement in our democracy. The Foundation generates financial and creative support for National Archives exhibitions, public programs, and educational initiatives, introducing America’s records to people around the U.S. and the world. Learn more at www.archivesfoundation.org . Snippet # # # For media inquiries, please contact the National Archives at (202) 357-5300 or public.affairs@nara.gov. Connect with the National Archives on: Facebook: USNationalArchives Instagram: usnatarchives LinkedIn: usnatarchives Threads: usnatarchives Tumblr: usnatarchives X: @USNatArchives YouTube: usnationalarchives Washington, DCpublic.affairs@nara.govNational Archives External Affairs and Communications
